#Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and Content

[参考文献](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-3)

## Resource

   Considering that a resource could be anything, and that the uniform
   interface provided by HTTP is similar to a window through which one
   can observe and act upon such a thing only through the communication
   of messages to some independent actor on the other side, an
   abstraction is needed to represent ("take the place of") the current
   or desired state of that thing in our communications.  That
   abstraction is called a representation [REST].
   
   For the purposes of HTTP, a "representation" is information that is
   intended to reflect a past, current, or desired state of a given
   resource, in a format that can be readily communicated via the
   protocol, and that consists of a set of representation metadata and a
   potentially unbounded stream of representation data.
   
   An origin server might be provided with, or be capable of generating,
   multiple representations that are each intended to reflect the
   current state of a target resource.  In such cases, some algorithm is
   used by the origin server to select one of those representations as
   most applicable to a given request, usually based on content
   negotiation.  This "selected representation" is used to provide the data 
   and metadata for evaluating conditional requests [RFC7232] and
   constructing the payload for 200 (OK) and 304 (Not Modified)
   responses to GET (Section 4.3.1).
   
 
## Representations

Considering that a resource could be anything, and that the uniform
interface provided by HTTP is similar to a window through which one
can observe and act upon such a thing only through the communication
of messages to some independent actor on the other side, an
abstraction is needed to represent ("take the place of") the current
or desired state of that thing in our communications.  That
abstraction is called a representation [REST].

For the purposes of HTTP, a "representation" is information that is
intended to reflect a past, current, or desired state of a given
resource, in a format that can be readily communicated via the
protocol, and that consists of a set of representation metadata and a
potentially unbounded stream of representation data.

An origin server might be provided with, or be capable of generating,
multiple representations that are each intended to reflect the
current state of a target resource.  In such cases, some algorithm is
used by the origin server to select one of those representations as
most applicable to a given request, usually based on content
negotiation.  This "selected representation" is used to provide the
data and metadata for evaluating conditional requests [RFC7232] and
constructing the payload for 200 (OK) and 304 (Not Modified)
responses to GET (Section 4.3.1).

### Representation Metadata

Representation header fields provide metadata about the
representation.  When a message includes a payload body, the
representation header fields describe how to interpret the
representation data enclosed in the payload body.  In a response to a
HEAD request, the representation header fields describe the
representation data that would have been enclosed in the payload body
if the same request had been a GET.

The following header fields convey representation metadata:

	   +-------------------+-----------------+
	   | Header Field Name | Defined in...   |
	   +-------------------+-----------------+
	   | Content-Type      | Section 3.1.1.5 |
	   | Content-Encoding  | Section 3.1.2.2 |
	   | Content-Language  | Section 3.1.3.2 |
	   | Content-Location  | Section 3.1.4.2 |
	   +-------------------+-----------------+

#### Content-Type 

The "Content-Type" header field indicates the media type of the
associated representation: either the representation enclosed in the
message payload or the selected representation, as determined by the
message semantics.  The indicated media type defines both the data
format and how that data is intended to be processed by a recipient,
within the scope of the received message semantics, after any content
codings indicated by Content-Encoding are decoded.

	Content-Type = media-type
	
	media-type

	   HTTP uses Internet media types [RFC2046] in the Content-Type
	   (Section 3.1.1.5) and Accept (Section 5.3.2) header fields in order
	   to provide open and extensible data typing and type negotiation.
	   Media types define both a data format and various processing models:
	   how to process that data in accordance with each context in which it
	   is received.
	   
	        media-type = type "/" subtype *( OWS ";" OWS parameter )
		    type       = token
		    subtype    = token
			    
	   The type, subtype, and parameter name tokens are case-insensitive.
	   Parameter values might or might not be case-sensitive, depending on
	   the semantics of the parameter name.  The presence or absence of a
	   parameter might be significant to the processing of a media-type,
	   depending on its definition within the media type registry.
	
	   A parameter value that matches the token production can be
	   transmitted either as a token or within a quoted-string.  The quoted
	   and unquoted values are equivalent.  For example, the following
	   examples are all equivalent, but the first is preferred for
	   consistency:
	   
	   		 text/html;charset=utf-8
		     text/html;charset=UTF-8
		     Text/HTML;Charset="utf-8"
		     text/html; charset="utf-8"
		     
	
An example of the field is

	Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-4
	
A sender that generates a message containing a payload body SHOULD
generate a Content-Type header field in that message unless the
intended media type of the enclosed representation is unknown to the
sender.  If a Content-Type header field is not present, the recipient
MAY either assume a media type of "application/octet-stream"
([RFC2046], Section 4.5.1) or examine the data to determine its type.

In practice, resource owners do not always properly configure their
origin server to provide the correct Content-Type for a given
representation, with the result that some clients will examine a
payload's content and override the specified type.  Clients that do
so risk drawing incorrect conclusions, which might expose additional
security risks (e.g., "privilege escalation").  Furthermore, it is
impossible to determine the sender's intent by examining the data
format: many data formats match multiple media types that differ only
in processing semantics.  Implementers are encouraged to provide a
means of disabling such "content sniffing" when it is used.


## Request Method

The request method token is the primary source of request semantics;
it indicates the purpose for which the client has made this request
and what is expected by the client as a successful result.
	
		
	   +---------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+
	   | Method  | Description                                     | Sec.  |
	   +---------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+
	   | GET     | Transfer a current representation of the target | 4.3.1 |
	   |         | resource.                                       |       |
	   | HEAD    | Same as GET, but only transfer the status line  | 4.3.2 |
	   |         | and header section.                             |       |
	   | POST    | Perform resource-specific processing on the     | 4.3.3 |
	   |         | request payload.                                |       |
	   | PUT     | Replace all current representations of the      | 4.3.4 |
	   |         | target resource with the request payload.       |       |
	   | DELETE  | Remove all current representations of the       | 4.3.5 |
	   |         | target resource.                                |       |
	   | CONNECT | Establish a tunnel to the server identified by  | 4.3.6 |
	   |         | the target resource.                            |       |
	   | OPTIONS | Describe the communication options for the      | 4.3.7 |
	   |         | target resource.                                |       |
	   | TRACE   | Perform a message loop-back test along the path | 4.3.8 |
	   |         | to the target resource.                         |       |
	   +---------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+
	   
All general-purpose servers MUST support the methods GET and HEAD.
All other methods are OPTIONAL.

Additional methods, outside the scope of this specification, have
been standardized for use in HTTP.  All such methods ought to be
registered within the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Method
Registry" maintained by **IANA**, as defined in Section 8.1.

The set of methods allowed by a target resource can be listed in an
Allow header field (Section 7.4.1).  However, the set of allowed
methods can change dynamically.  When a request method is received
that is unrecognized or not implemented by an origin server, the
origin server SHOULD respond with the 501 (Not Implemented) status
code.  When a request method is received that is known by an origin
server but not allowed for the target resource, the origin server
SHOULD respond with the 405 (Method Not Allowed) status code

###  Common Method Properties

#### Safe Methods

Request methods are considered "safe" if their defined semantics are
essentially read-only; i.e., the client does not request, and does
not expect, any state change on the origin server as a result of
applying a safe method to a target resource.  Likewise, reasonable
use of a safe method is not expected to cause any harm, loss of
property, or unusual burden on the origin server.

This definition of safe methods does not prevent an implementation
from including behavior that is potentially harmful, that is not
entirely read-only, or that causes side effects while invoking a safe
method.  What is important, however, is that the client did not
request that additional behavior and cannot be held accountable for
it.  For example, most servers append request information to access
log files at the completion of every response, regardless of the
method, and that is considered safe even though the log storage might
become full and crash the server.  Likewise, a safe request initiated
by selecting an advertisement on the Web will often have the side
effect of charging an advertising account.

Of the request methods defined by this specification, **the GET, HEAD,
OPTIONS, and TRACE methods are defined to be safe**.

The purpose of distinguishing between safe and unsafe methods is to
allow automated retrieval processes (spiders) and cache performance
optimization (pre-fetching) to work without fear of causing harm.  In
addition, it allows a user agent to apply appropriate constraints on
the automated use of unsafe methods when processing potentially
untrusted content.

A user agent SHOULD distinguish between safe and unsafe methods when
presenting potential actions to a user, such that the user can be
made aware of an unsafe action before it is requested.

When a resource is constructed such that parameters within the
effective request URI have the effect of selecting an action, it is
the resource owner's responsibility to ensure that the action is
consistent with the request method semantics.  For example, it is
common for Web-based content editing software to use actions within
query parameters, such as "page?do=delete".  If the purpose of such a
resource is to perform an unsafe action, then the resource owner MUST
disable or disallow that action when it is accessed using a safe
request method.  Failure to do so will result in unfortunate side
effects when automated processes perform a GET on every URI reference
for the sake of link maintenance, pre-fetching, building a search
index, etc.

#### Idempotent Methods

A request method is considered "idempotent" if the intended effect on
the server of multiple identical requests with that method is the
same as the effect for a single such request.  Of the request methods
defined by this specification, **PUT, DELETE, and safe request methods
are idempotent.**


Like the definition of safe, the idempotent property only applies to
what has been requested by the user; a server is free to log each
request separately, retain a revision control history, or implement
other non-idempotent side effects for each idempotent request.

Idempotent methods are distinguished because the request can be
repeated automatically if a communication failure occurs before the
client is able to read the server's response.  For example, if a
client sends a PUT request and the underlying connection is closed
before any response is received, then the client can establish a new
connection and retry the idempotent request.  It knows that repeating
the request will have the same intended effect, even if the original
request succeeded, though the response might differ.

#### Cacheable Methods

Request methods can be defined as "cacheable" to indicate that
responses to them are allowed to be stored for future reuse; for
specific requirements see [RFC7234].  In general, safe methods that
do not depend on a current or authoritative response are defined as
cacheable; this specification defines GET, HEAD, and POST as
cacheable, although the overwhelming majority of cache
implementations only support GET and HEAD.

### Method Definitions

#### GET

The GET method requests transfer of a current selected representation
for the target resource.  GET is the primary mechanism of information
retrieval and the focus of almost all performance optimizations.
Hence, when people speak of retrieving some identifiable information
via HTTP, they are generally referring to making a GET request.

#### HEAD

The HEAD method is identical to GET except that the server MUST NOT
send a message body in the response (i.e., the response terminates at
the end of the header section).  The server SHOULD send the same
header fields in response to a HEAD request as it would have sent if
the request had been a GET, except that the payload header fields
(Section 3.3) MAY be omitted.  This method can be used for obtaining
metadata about the selected representation without transferring the
representation data and is often used for testing hypertext links for
validity, accessibility, and recent modification.

#### POST

The POST method requests that the target resource process the
representation enclosed in the request according to the resource's
own specific semantics.  For example, POST is used for the following
functions (among others):

- Providing a block of data, such as the fields entered into an HTML form, to a data-handling process;

- Posting a message to a bulletin board, newsgroup, mailing list, blog, or similar group of articles;

- Creating a new resource that has yet to be identified by the origin server; and

- Appending data to a resource's existing representation(s).

#### PUT

The PUT method requests that the state of the target resource be
created or replaced with the state defined by the representation
enclosed in the request message payload.  A successful PUT of a given
representation would suggest that a subsequent GET on that same
target resource will result in an equivalent representation being
sent in a 200 (OK) response.  However, there is no guarantee that
such a state change will be observable, since the target resource
might be acted upon by other user agents in parallel, or might be
subject to dynamic processing by the origin server, before any
subsequent GET is received.  A successful response only implies that
the user agent's intent was achieved at the time of its processing by
the origin server.

#### DELETE

The DELETE method requests that the origin server remove the
association between the target resource and its current
functionality.  In effect, this method is similar to the rm command
in UNIX: it expresses a deletion operation on the URI mapping of the
origin server rather than an expectation that the previously
associated information be deleted.

#### CONNECT

The CONNECT method requests that the recipient establish a tunnel to
the destination origin server identified by the request-target and,
if successful, thereafter restrict its behavior to blind forwarding
of packets, in both directions, until the tunnel is closed.  Tunnels
are commonly used to create an end-to-end virtual connection, through
one or more proxies, which can then be secured using TLS (Transport
Layer Security, [RFC5246]).

CONNECT is intended only for use in requests to a proxy.  An origin
server that receives a CONNECT request for itself MAY respond with a
2xx (Successful) status code to indicate that a connection is
established.  However, most origin servers do not implement CONNECT.

#### OPTIONS

The OPTIONS method requests information about the communication
options available for the target resource, at either the origin
server or an intervening intermediary.  This method allows a client
to determine the options and/or requirements associated with a
resource, or the capabilities of a server, without implying a
resource action.

#### TRACE

The TRACE method requests a remote, application-level loop-back of
the request message.  The final recipient of the request SHOULD
reflect the message received, excluding some fields described below,
back to the client as the message body of a 200 (OK) response with a
Content-Type of "message/http" (Section 8.3.1 of [RFC7230]).  The
final recipient is either the origin server or the first server to
receive a Max-Forwards value of zero (0) in the request
(Section 5.1.2).

